Hey, everybody.
I'm Jen Kramer, Director of Learning
Design and Technology at AnnieCannons.
We are going to be building a portfolio
site using only HTML and CSS.
And this course is designed mostly for
people who have less
experience with HTML and CSS.
They need to beef up those particular
skills and come up to date with what's
going on, what are the latest things that
we're doing in the HTML and CSS space.
I'm going to walk you through
the whole entire website.
We're gonna break it
down into small pieces.
We're gonna work on small
pieces one at a time.
All the way through is
a series of CodePens,
which is an environment
where you can write HTML and
CSS write there inside of your
web browser, nothing to set up.
And then we will reassemble those in
VS code, which is your code editor,
where you can create whole web pages.
And we'll create both a homepage and
an inside page.
The actual assets that we'll be
using to put this together or
my courses here at Frontend Masters.
So I'm building a website.
It's all about me in the work that
I've done here at Frontend Masters.
But if you would like to substitute your
own work, I strongly encourage that.
So, be prepared to think about what
kind of work you might wanna include
in a site like this.
Some screenshots, maybe a little bit of
text and swapping your own stuff, and
you'll have a website that will
be absolutely perfect to you.
Or you can follow along with
the stuff that I've given you, and
just concentrate on learning HTML and CSS.
Either way, this is gonna work out great.
>> Chad online says,
I'm excited to learn CSS.
>> Yay, we're excited to learn CSS.
It's totally awesome.
And this website is going to walk you
through everything that you're going to
need for this particular course.
We have a listing of all of the chapters
that are here on the side that
we will be working through one at a time,
and
you can read a little bit more about the
course over here on the left-hand side.
Let me show you the site we're
gonna build before we get started.
Right here from the home page,
there's a button that says view
the website that will create.
We have a space themed website,
cuz who doesn't love space?
So here is the website.
You'll see that we have sort of an opening
area where you can identify yourself and
talk about what you do.
We're gonna go on to a featured project,
maybe have a great big
huge screenshot here.
We talk about the kinds of technologies
that you use to build that along with
the description of that particular item.
Then we're gonna have some
projects that we're proud of.
Maybe you have like three projects
that you're really proud of.
And you'll notice that we have these
cool little overlays here to give us
the title of that project, and again,
some of the technologies used for
it and some smaller screenshots
down here on the bottom.
Scroll down a little further, we've got
a contact area, and then down the way down
here on the bottom we have a footer here
with information about how to contact you.
Just to show you real quick what this is
gonna look like at different breakpoints
cuz, of course, we have to make this
work on different types of devices.
So we do have this setup
to go to a tablet kind of
layout where things are more
stacked on top of each other.
Very nice.
All right, and then, of course,
we're going to go to mobile,
and at mobile will be really,
really small.
Notice we have a lovely hamburger button
here with a full working hamburger
menu and guess what?
It's all CSS.
No JavaScript in this site at all.
So I will show you how to
make this cool thing happen.
And again,
everything is all stacked on top of each
other all the way down to the bottom.
There is also an inside page, which we'll
build right at the end of the course.
If you click on the link here in
the navigation that says Magenta Lime,
this will take you to
the Magenta Lime page.
This happens to be the project that
we built as part of the practical CSS
layouts course, which is a more
advanced CSS layouts course.
Here we are with a video to start us off.
And then we have some additional images
from that website here underneath.
And of course,
that's also mobile-compatible.